docs/how-tos/data-allowances.md, before:

---
description: How to set up data allowances via the emnify Portal
slug: /how-tos/data-allowances
---

# Assign data allowances

emnify has data allowances, which lets you to manage different data plans from a single account.
These data allowances and plans are managed within [coverage policies](/portal/device-policies#coverage-policies).

With the **Pro Package**, you can manage as many coverage policies and data plans as you need.
Those on a **Plus Package** can manage up to 4 data plans.

Once data plans have been enabled on your emnify account, make sure your coverage policies have been adjusted correctly to take advantage of these allowances.

## View your coverage policies

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
1. Navigate to **Device Policies**, then scroll to [**Coverage Policies**](https://portal.emnify.com/device-policies#coverage-policies).
1. Adjust your existing policies under **Details** or select **New coverage policy** to create a new one.

:::info
Once enabled, you need to configure a data allowance for your coverage policies to use them with devices.
:::

## Change the data allowance

If you notice that one of your devices uses more (or less) data than expected, you can update its assigned data allowance any time during the month.

:::info
Any changes are reflected on your invoice within a few hours.
:::

### Individual device

1. Navigate to your [**Connected Devices**](https://portal.emnify.com/connected-devices).
1. Decide which device you want to adjust and click **Details**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-details-button.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

1. Find your device's **Coverage policy** information under the **Devices** section of the **General** tab.
1. Click **Edit** and select the coverage policy with the corresponding data allowance you want the device to use.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-details-device-policies-coverage-policy-edit-button.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

:::tip
Your changes are saved automatically.
:::

In the following example, the device switches from **Europe 1 MB** included to **Europe 500 MB** included.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-details-device-policies-coverage-policy-dropdown.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{width: 450}}
/>

### Multiple devices in bulk

1. Navigate to your [**Connected Devices**](https://portal.emnify.com/connected-devices).
1. Select multiple devices by clicking the checkboxes next to the device **Name**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-select-multiple-devices.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

1. Locate the **More** dropdown menu on the banner and select **Change Coverage Policy**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-bulk-actions-more-change-coverage-policy.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

1. Once the **Change Coverage Policy** modal appears, use the **Coverage Policy** dropdown to choose the policy you want to assign to the selected devices and click **Save**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-bulk-actions-change-coverage-policy-modal.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

In the preceding example, the two selected devices (**Walking Mobile** and **TravelSpot**) are assigned to **New coverage policy**.

## Change the data plan

You can also change the coverage (for example, switching from **Americas** to **APAC**) anytime during the month.

:::info
When creating the invoice, emnify confirms which data plan the device is assigned to and bill your account accordingly.
Any changes are reflected on your invoice within a few hours.
:::

To change a coverage policy's data plan in the Portal, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the **Device Policies**.
1. Go to [**Coverage Policies**](https://portal.emnify.com/device-policies).
1. Find the coverage policy you want to update and click **Details**.
1. Use the **Coverage** dropdown to select a new data plan or use the toggles to adjust the **Coverage areas**.

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
"on the [name] package" --> "with the [name] package"
"Trial plan" --> "trial" because you're trialling emnify
"Starter Support" --> "Standard Support"
Fix data allowances guide introduction
"Coverage" --> "Data Plan" for coverage policies

Co-authored-by: Jeff Stahlnecker <45363541+jeffstahlnecker@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/how-tos/data-allowances.md, after:

---
description: How to change the assigned data allowance via the emnify Portal
slug: /how-tos/data-allowances
---

# Change the assigned data allowance

Data allowances are managed within [coverage policies](/portal/device-policies#coverage-policies).

With the **Pro Package**, you can manage as many data plans as you need.
Those with a **Plus Package** can manage up to 4 data plans.

Once a data plan has been configured on your emnify account, make sure your coverage policies have been adjusted correctly to take advantage of data allowances.

## View your coverage policies

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
1. Navigate to **Device Policies**, then scroll to [**Coverage Policies**](https://portal.emnify.com/device-policies#coverage-policies).
1. Adjust your existing policies under **Details** or select **New coverage policy** to create a new one.

:::info
Once configured, you need to add a data allowance for your coverage policies to use them with devices.
:::

## Change the data allowance

If you notice that one of your devices uses more (or less) data than expected, you can update its assigned data allowance any time during the month.

:::info
Any changes are reflected on your invoice within a few hours.
:::

### Individual device

1. Navigate to your [**Connected Devices**](https://portal.emnify.com/connected-devices).
1. Decide which device you want to adjust and click **Details**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-details-button.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

1. Find your device's **Coverage policy** information under the **Devices** section of the **General** tab.
1. Click **Edit** and select the coverage policy with the corresponding data allowance you want the device to use.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-details-device-policies-coverage-policy-edit-button.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

:::tip
Your changes are saved automatically.
:::

In the following example, the device switches from **Europe 1 MB** included to **Europe 500 MB** included.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-details-device-policies-coverage-policy-dropdown.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{width: 450}}
/>

### Multiple devices in bulk

1. Navigate to your [**Connected Devices**](https://portal.emnify.com/connected-devices).
1. Select multiple devices by clicking the checkboxes next to the device **Name**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-select-multiple-devices.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

1. Locate the **More** dropdown menu on the banner and select **Change Coverage Policy**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-bulk-actions-more-change-coverage-policy.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

1. Once the **Change Coverage Policy** modal appears, use the **Coverage Policy** dropdown to choose the policy you want to assign to the selected devices and click **Save**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-connected-devices-bulk-actions-change-coverage-policy-modal.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

In the preceding example, the two selected devices (**Walking Mobile** and **TravelSpot**) are assigned to **New coverage policy**.

## Change the data plan

You can also change the coverage (for example, switching from **Americas** to **APAC**) anytime during the month.

:::info
When creating the invoice, emnify confirms which data plan the device is assigned to and bill your account accordingly.
Any changes are reflected on your invoice within a few hours.
:::

To change a coverage policy's data plan in the Portal, follow these steps:

1. Navigate to the **Device Policies**.
1. Go to [**Coverage Policies**](https://portal.emnify.com/device-policies).
1. Find the coverage policy you want to update and click **Details**.
1. Use the **Data Plan** dropdown to select a new data plan or use the toggles to adjust the **Coverage areas**.
