docs/how-tos/index.md, before:

# How-tos

## Automation

- [How to automate workflows with Zapier and emnify in 5 minutes](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/emnify-zapier-nocode)
- [How to stop SIM theft from increasing your fleet tracking costs](https://www.emnify.com/blog/how-to-stop-sim-theft-from-increasing-fleet-costs)
- [Ultimate guide to update IoT firmware with emnify and serverless on AWS](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-automate-iot-management-with-aws)

## Connectivity

- [5 ways to detect connection errors and how to resolve them](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/5-ways-to-detect-and-solve-connectivity-issues)
- [AT commands for GSM](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/at-commands-for-cellular-modules)
- [Create an IoT gateway with emnify, Raspberry Pi, and Sixfab](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/getting-started-on-your-iot-journey-with-emnify-and-raspberry-pi)
- [How to access any IoT device or web server behind a Teltonika Networks router](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-access-iot-device-or-web-server-behind-a-teltonika-router)
- [How to fit a Raspberry Pi with mobile connectivity](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-fit-a-raspberry-pi-with-mobile-connectivity)
- [How to set up multi-inclusive volumes](/how-tos/multi-inclusive-volumes)


## SMS

- [4 ways to send SMS to your devices manually and automatically](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/4-ways-to-send-sms)
- [How to send and receive SMS via the API](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-send-and-receive-sms-via-the-api)

## User management

- [Enabling two-factor authentication on your emnify account](/how-tos/two-factor-authentication)

Commit message:

Publish workspaces how-tos (beta) (#135)

docs/how-tos/index.md, after:

# How-tos

## Automation

- [How to automate workflows with Zapier and emnify in 5 minutes](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/emnify-zapier-nocode)
- [How to stop SIM theft from increasing your fleet tracking costs](https://www.emnify.com/blog/how-to-stop-sim-theft-from-increasing-fleet-costs)
- [Ultimate guide to update IoT firmware with emnify and serverless on AWS](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-automate-iot-management-with-aws)

## Connectivity

- [5 ways to detect connection errors and how to resolve them](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/5-ways-to-detect-and-solve-connectivity-issues)
- [AT commands for GSM](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/at-commands-for-cellular-modules)
- [Create an IoT gateway with emnify, Raspberry Pi, and Sixfab](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/getting-started-on-your-iot-journey-with-emnify-and-raspberry-pi)
- [How to access any IoT device or web server behind a Teltonika Networks router](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-access-iot-device-or-web-server-behind-a-teltonika-router)
- [How to fit a Raspberry Pi with mobile connectivity](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-fit-a-raspberry-pi-with-mobile-connectivity)
- [How to set up multi-inclusive volumes](/how-tos/multi-inclusive-volumes)

## Organization and billing

- [Enabling workspaces on your Pro plan](/workspaces/create)

## SMS

- [4 ways to send SMS to your devices manually and automatically](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/4-ways-to-send-sms)
- [How to send and receive SMS via the API](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/how-to-send-and-receive-sms-via-the-api)

## User management

- [Enabling two-factor authentication on your emnify account](/how-tos/two-factor-authentication)
