docs/how-tos/update-company-details.md, before:

---
description: How to update your company details and payment method in the emnify Portal
last_update: 
  date: 01-16-2024
slug: /how-tos/update-company-details
---

# Update your company details

## Name and address

If you need to update or change your company's name or any other details, follow these steps.

1. [Log in to the emnify Portal](https://portal.emnify.com/sign/).
1. Go to **Workspace settings** (building icon) in the top-level navigation and select **Organization Data**.
1. Under **Organization details**, click **Edit**.
1. Enter the required details, then click **Save**.

## Payment method

You can also update your payment method in the Workspace settings.

1. Log in to the emnify Portal.
1. Go to **Workspace settings** (building icon) in the top-level navigation and select [**Billing**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/billing).
1. Your payment method is listed in the **Payment information** section under **Pay with**.
If you already have a payment method that you want to update, click **Change**.
Otherwise, click **Add payment method**.

Commit message:

Add screenshots to update company name and address guide

docs/how-tos/update-company-details.md, after:

---
description: How to update your company details and payment method in the emnify Portal
last_update: 
  date: 01-16-2024
slug: /how-tos/update-company-details
---

# Update your company details

## Name and address

If you need to update or change your company's name or any other details, follow these steps.

1. [Log in to the emnify Portal](https://portal.emnify.com/sign/).
2. Go to **Workspace settings** (building icon) in the top-level navigation and select **Organization Data**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-dashboard-workspace-settings-organization-data.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

3. Under **Organization details**, click **Edit**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-workspace-settings-organization-data-organization-details-edit.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

4. Enter the required details, then click **Save**.

In the following example, the company name `Example Organization` is changed to `New Example Organization Name`.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-workspace-settings-organization-data-edit-organization-details-save.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

## Payment method

You can also update your payment method in the Workspace settings.

1. Log in to the emnify Portal.
1. Go to **Workspace settings** (building icon) in the top-level navigation and select [**Billing**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/billing).
1. Your payment method is listed in the **Payment information** section under **Pay with**.
If you already have a payment method that you want to update, click **Change**.
Otherwise, click **Add payment method**.
