README.md, before:

# emnify product documentation


Welcome to the emnify product documentation repository!
Here you will find the content source for generating the [emnify Documentation](https://emnify.github.io/product-docs/) site.
If you have any suggestions, questions, or feedback, don't hesitate to [contact our documentation team](mailto:docs@emnify.com).
To request an update or additional content, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/emnify/product-docs/issues/new).

## Contents

- [How to contribute to the emnify Product Documentation](#how-to-contribute-to-the-emnify-product-documentation)
    - [Software requirements](#software-requirements)
        - [Git](#git)
        - [Node.js](#nodejs)
        - [yarn](#yarn)
        - [An IDE](#an-ide)
    - [Set up your working directory](#set-up-your-working-directory)
    - [Workflow](#workflow)
    - [File requirements](#file-requirements)
- [Previewing the documentation site](#previewing-the-documentation-site)

---

## How to contribute to the emnify Product Documentation

It is assumed that contributors, both internal and external, have some experience with [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/).
If not, here are some resources to help you get started:

- **Git**
  - [Git Cheat Sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf)
  - [An Intro to Git and GitHub for Beginners](https://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners)
- **Markdown**
  - [Basic syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)
  - [Extended syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/)

### Software requirements

Most of the software you will need to install is free and uses only nominal system resources.

#### Git

By platform:

- **Windows**: Follow these [instructions](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git#windows).
- **macOS**:
Open **App Store** from the Dock and search for **Xcode**.
This is an extensive package.
Before installing **Xcode**, plan for a required reboot and at least 30 minutes of downtime.
- **Linux**: Preinstalled

#### Node.js

The emnify Developer Documentation site uses [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=meta) for its layout, style, and navigation.
For building the docs with Docusaurus you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/about/).

#### yarn

Follow yarn's [installation instructions](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) for your platform.

#### An IDE

Although you could use a simple text editor like TextEdit or Windows Notepad, you will miss out on many features that an [Integrated Development Environment](https://www.codecademy.com/article/what-is-an-ide) (IDE) has to offer, e.g., [syntax highlighting](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/language-extensions/syntax-highlight-guide), Git integration, etc.
Most have a built-in previewer for Markdown that shows how the text will look (more or less) once it is rendered as a web page.
These are the top 3 [IDEs by market share](https://pypl.github.io/IDE.html):

1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (commonly referred to as "VS Code")
1. [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)
1. [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)

## Working with GitHub

Technically, there are a couple of methods of contributing content to a GitHub repository, each with its pros and cons:

1. Directly via this GitHub repository
1. Using developer tools, i.e., an IDE and either Git or [GitHub Desktop](https://help.github.com/en/desktop)

The first method may seem like the easiest.
However, there are many advantages to using the second method, namely the comfort of using an IDE, which enables you to easily navigate through the directory structure, work on or view multiple files simultaneously, edit content when offline, resolve merge conflicts, etc.

The most compelling reason for using developer tools is that you will be able to run [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) for viewing the site on your local workstation.
Having a preview of how your content will look when it is integrated into the documentation site prior to creating a [Pull Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests) (PR) is invaluable.
See [Previewing the documentation site](#previewing-the-documentation-site) for how to install and run Docusaurus.

We highly recommend that you follow the preferred method of using developer tools.

### Set up your working directory

These steps are only performed for initial setups.

1. [Fork](https://docs.github.com/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo) this repository (emnify squads can skip this step)
2. [Clone](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) this repository
    - Open your terminal (or PowerShell).
    - Navigate to the location where you want the repository to reside.
    - Issue the following command
```
git clone git@github.com:EMnify/product-docs.git
```

### Workflow

- Create your [new branch](https://help.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-to-projects/creating-a-branch-for-your-work).
- Within your new branch, apply your changes or create your new content
- [Commit](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project) your changes.
- [Push](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects#making-and-pushing-changes) your changes.
    - Create a PR and submit it for review.

**NOTE:** Since we use [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/EMnify/product-docs/actions), whenever you push your changes to your branch on GitHub, you will see a green check mark next to the name of your PR in the [PR List](0https://github.com/EMnify/product-docs/pulls) if Docusaurus was able to build the site with your changes.
PRs will not be reviewed until the build runs without errors.

### File requirements

In order to maintain consistency within the project, please follow these guidelines for all files.

- **UTF-8** encoding
- **Lines** must be terminated with [UNIX newline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newline#Representation) (`\n`) characters, *not* Windows CRLF (`\r\n`)
- **Filenames** should *not* contain uppercase letters, spaces, or special characters.  
They should be lowercase alphanumeric with words separated by a single hyphen (`-`). For example: `3-methods-for-sending-data.png`


## Previewing the documentation site

Since the documentation site is built using [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=meta), we need to install it from a location within your cloned repository:

```
yarn add docusaurus
```

To preview the site run the following:

```
yarn start
```

Commit message:

README: Fixed a nesting problem in Workflow and added additional content regarding the review process

README.md, after:

# emnify product documentation


Welcome to the emnify product documentation repository!
Here you will find the content source for generating the [emnify Documentation](https://emnify.github.io/product-docs/) site.
If you have any suggestions, questions, or feedback, don't hesitate to [contact our documentation team](mailto:docs@emnify.com).
To request an update or additional content, please [open a GitHub issue](https://github.com/emnify/product-docs/issues/new).

## Contents

- [How to contribute to the emnify Product Documentation](#how-to-contribute-to-the-emnify-product-documentation)
    - [Software requirements](#software-requirements)
        - [Git](#git)
        - [Node.js](#nodejs)
        - [yarn](#yarn)
        - [An IDE](#an-ide)
    - [Set up your working directory](#set-up-your-working-directory)
    - [Workflow](#workflow)
    - [File requirements](#file-requirements)
- [Previewing the documentation site](#previewing-the-documentation-site)

---

## How to contribute to the emnify Product Documentation

It is assumed that contributors, both internal and external, have some experience with [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/).
If not, here are some resources to help you get started:

- **Git**
  - [Git Cheat Sheet](https://education.github.com/git-cheat-sheet-education.pdf)
  - [An Intro to Git and GitHub for Beginners](https://product.hubspot.com/blog/git-and-github-tutorial-for-beginners)
- **Markdown**
  - [Basic syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/)
  - [Extended syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/extended-syntax/)

### Software requirements

Most of the software you will need to install is free and uses only nominal system resources.

#### Git

By platform:

- **Windows**: Follow these [instructions](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/install-git#windows).
- **macOS**:
Open **App Store** from the Dock and search for **Xcode**.
This is an extensive package.
Before installing **Xcode**, plan for a required reboot and at least 30 minutes of downtime.
- **Linux**: Preinstalled

#### Node.js

The emnify Developer Documentation site uses [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=meta) for its layout, style, and navigation.
For building the docs with Docusaurus you will need [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/about/).

#### yarn

Follow yarn's [installation instructions](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install) for your platform.

#### An IDE

Although you could use a simple text editor like TextEdit or Windows Notepad, you will miss out on many features that an [Integrated Development Environment](https://www.codecademy.com/article/what-is-an-ide) (IDE) has to offer, e.g., [syntax highlighting](https://code.visualstudio.com/api/language-extensions/syntax-highlight-guide), Git integration, etc.
Most have a built-in previewer for Markdown that shows how the text will look (more or less) once it is rendered as a web page.
These are the top 3 [IDEs by market share](https://pypl.github.io/IDE.html):

1. [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (commonly referred to as "VS Code")
1. [Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/)
1. [PyCharm](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/)

## Working with GitHub

Technically, there are a couple of methods of contributing content to a GitHub repository, each with its pros and cons:

1. Directly via this GitHub repository
1. Using developer tools, i.e., an IDE and either Git or [GitHub Desktop](https://help.github.com/en/desktop)

The first method may seem like the easiest.
However, there are many advantages to using the second method, namely the comfort of using an IDE, which enables you to easily navigate through the directory structure, work on or view multiple files simultaneously, edit content when offline, resolve merge conflicts, etc.

The most compelling reason for using developer tools is that you will be able to run [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/) for viewing the site on your local workstation.
Having a preview of how your content will look when it is integrated into the documentation site prior to creating a [Pull Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests) (PR) is invaluable.
See [Previewing the documentation site](#previewing-the-documentation-site) for how to install and run Docusaurus.

We highly recommend that you follow the preferred method of using developer tools.

### Set up your working directory

These steps are only performed for initial setups.

1. [Fork](https://docs.github.com/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo) this repository (emnify squads can skip this step)
2. [Clone](https://help.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository) this repository
    - Open your terminal (or PowerShell).
    - Navigate to the location where you want the repository to reside.
    - Issue the following command
```
git clone git@github.com:EMnify/product-docs.git
```

### Workflow

- Create your [new branch](https://help.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-to-projects/creating-a-branch-for-your-work).
- Within your new branch, apply your changes or create your new content
- [Commit](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/committing-changes-to-your-project) your changes.
- [Push](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects#making-and-pushing-changes) your changes.
- Create a [Pull Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests) (PR).
- When your work is ready for review, assign a reviewer to the PR, and request a review.
- Depending on the results of the review, it could be approved for merging.
Otherwise, there might be some additional work mentioned under the **Conversations** tab of your PR.
Once you have completed changes to resolve all open conversations  and pushed the new commit(s), you can request another review. 

**NOTE:** Since we use [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/EMnify/product-docs/actions), whenever you push your changes to your branch on GitHub, you will see a green check mark next to the name of your PR in the [PR List](0https://github.com/EMnify/product-docs/pulls) if Docusaurus was able to build the site with your changes.
PRs will not be reviewed until the build runs without errors.

### File requirements

In order to maintain consistency within the project, please follow these guidelines for all files.

- **UTF-8** encoding
- **Lines** must be terminated with [UNIX newline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newline#Representation) (`\n`) characters, *not* Windows CRLF (`\r\n`)
- **Filenames** should *not* contain uppercase letters, spaces, or special characters.  
They should be lowercase alphanumeric with words separated by a single hyphen (`-`). For example: `3-methods-for-sending-data.png`


## Previewing the documentation site

Since the documentation site is built using [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/showcase?tags=meta), we need to install it from a location within your cloned repository:

```
yarn add docusaurus
```

To preview the site run the following:

```
yarn start
```
