docs/how-tos/device-policies/create-service-policies.mdx, before:

---
description: Create a new service policy on the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 02-14-2024
pagination_next: how-tos/device-policies/create-coverage-policies
slug: /how-tos/create-service-policies
---

# Create a new service policy

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
1. Navigate to **Device Policies**.
  **Service policies** are in the top section of the page.
1. Select **New service policy**.
  This creates a new service policy at the top of the list.
1. Expand the policy details.
1. Replace **New service policy** with the name of your policy, then add a **Description** and edit the **Data** and **SMS** configurations.

Changes save automatically.

:::tip
Creating one policy per use case or device type helps you adjust and save your device settings based on the demands of a particular use case.
:::

## Delete a service policy

Click the trash bin icon to remove a service policy.

## Next steps

Service policies only become useful after you start assigning devices to them.
For instructions on how to do this in the emnify Portal, see [Assign devices to a policy](/how-tos/assign-devices-to-policies).

Commit message:

[CI-2943] Specify character limits for service policy title and description

docs/how-tos/device-policies/create-service-policies.mdx, after:

---
description: Create a new service policy on the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 02-21-2024
pagination_next: how-tos/device-policies/create-coverage-policies
slug: /how-tos/create-service-policies
---

# Create a new service policy

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
1. Navigate to **Device Policies**.
  **Service policies** are in the top section of the page.
1. Select **New service policy**.
  This creates a new service policy at the top of the list.
1. Expand the policy details.
1. Replace **New service policy** with a title for your policy with a maximum length of 45 characters.
  Then, add a **Description** with a maximum length of 120 characters. 
1. Edit the **Data** and **SMS** configurations.

Changes save automatically.

:::tip
Creating one policy per use case or device type helps you adjust and save your device settings based on the demands of a particular use case.
:::

## Delete a service policy

Click the trash bin icon to remove a service policy.

## Next steps

Service policies only become useful after you start assigning devices to them.
For instructions on how to do this in the emnify Portal, see [Assign devices to a policy](/how-tos/assign-devices-to-policies).
