docs/portal/user-settings.md, before:

---
description: Managing your profile and preferences in the emnify Portal
last_update: 
  date: 11-16-2023
slug: /portal/user-settings
---

# User settings

[**User Settings**](https://portal.emnify.com/user-settings) is where you can manage your profile and preferences.
It's readily accessible from any page in the emnify Portal by selecting your initials to the right of the **Workspace settings** icon.

## User profile

You can create a profile picture, edit your name, or select your organization's name to be taken to the [**Organization Details**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/details) form.

The **Language** dropdown lets you switch the emnify Portal to one of the following languages:

- Deutsch
- Español
- Français
- Italiano
- Português - PT
- Português - BR

## Authorization

In the **Authorization** section, there's your email address with a **Change Password** link.
However, you can't change the email address used to log in to the emnify Portal.

## Two-factor authentication

You can select **Enable** in this section to set up your account's multi-factor authentication (MFA).
Once you've enabled MFA, your **Account security** shows **Active** in the [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users) table, and you can [manage trusted devices](/how-tos/multi-factor-authentication#manage-trusted-devices).

:::warning[important update]
MFA will be mandatory for all emnify Portal accounts as of January 2024 to proactively safeguard our IoT ecosystem and meet regulatory security compliance.
For more information and configuration instructions, see [Set up multi-factor authentication](/how-tos/multi-factor-authentication).
:::

## Download GDPR data

At the end of the page, there's a **Download my GDPR data** link that allows you to save a `gdpr.txt` file containing the following information specific to your account:

- **User ID**
- **Username/Email**
- **User Name** (the name you chose for your account, for example, "Robin Smith")
- **Organization**
- **Created Date** 
- **User Roles**

Commit message:

Align Workspace-related terms with the PXD team (#298)

docs/portal/user-settings.md, after:

---
description: Managing your profile and preferences in the emnify Portal
last_update: 
  date: 02-28-2024
slug: /portal/user-settings
---

# User settings

[**User Settings**](https://portal.emnify.com/user-settings) is where you can manage your profile and preferences.
It's readily accessible from any page in the emnify Portal by selecting the avatar with your initials in the top-level navigation.

## User profile

In **User Profile**, you can edit your name or select your organization's name to be taken to the [**Organization Details**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/details) form.

The **Language** dropdown lets you switch the emnify Portal to one of the following languages:

- Deutsch
- Español
- Français
- Italiano
- Português - PT
- Português - BR

## Authorization

In the **Authorization** section, there's your email address with a **Change password** link.
However, you can't change the email address used to log in to the emnify Portal.

## Two-factor authentication

You can select **Enable** in this section to set up your account's multi-factor authentication (MFA).
Once you've enabled MFA, your **Account security** shows **Active** in the [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users) table, and you can [manage trusted devices](/how-tos/multi-factor-authentication#manage-trusted-devices).

:::warning[important update]
MFA will be mandatory for all emnify Portal accounts as of January 2024 to proactively safeguard our IoT ecosystem and meet regulatory security compliance.
For more information and configuration instructions, see [Set up multi-factor authentication](/how-tos/multi-factor-authentication).
:::

## Download GDPR data

At the end of the page, there's a **Download my GDPR data** link that allows you to save a `gdpr.txt` file containing the following information specific to your account:

- **User ID**
- **Username/Email**
- **User Name** (the name you chose for your account, for example, "Robin Smith")
- **Organization**
- **Created Date** 
- **User Roles**
