docs/quickstart/getting-started.md, before:

---
title: Getting started with emnify
description: How to start developing your IoT solutions with emnify
---
# Sign up for an emnify account

To begin developing your IoT solutions with emnify, you'll need an emnify account.
[Sign up](https://portal.emnify.com/sign/up) for free to a 60-day trial to use all functionalities.

<details className="custom-details-troubleshooting">
  <summary>Need help verifying your phone number?</summary>
    <p>When filling out our <a href="https://portal.emnify.com/sign/up" target="_blank">sign-up form</a>, you may have issues verifying your phone number.</p>
    <p>Here are a few common error messages and what to do if you see them:</p>
    <b>SMS verification not possible</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Try registering with another phone number.</li>
      <li><a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">Contact our sales team</a> to set up your account.</li>
    </ul>
    <b>You've reached the maximum login attempts</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Wait at least 10 minutes, and then try to log in again.</li>
      <li>If you've waited and your next attempt is blocked, <a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">contact our sales team</a>.</li>
    </ul>
    <b>The verification code you entered is incorrect</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Re-enter your code and click <b>Verify</b> again.</li>
      <li>Click <b>Resend Code</b> and enter the new verification code once you've received it.</li>
      <li>Still having trouble? <a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">Contact our sales team</a>.</li>
    </ul>
    <b>The CAPTCHA you entered is incorrect</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Re-enter the displayed CAPTCHA characters.</li>
      <li>Keep in mind that CAPTCHA shows both upper and lowercase letters, so it's important to capitalize them exactly as they're shown.</li>
      <li>Still having trouble? <a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">Contact our sales team</a>.</li>
    </ul>
</details>

## Order a free Evaluation SIM package

![Claim your free evaluation package with 3 triple-cut SIMs to kickstart your well-managed IoT journey. Includes: Free 3 triple-cut SIMs, form factor (Nano, Micro, Mini), our full coverage, and global fast shipping.](assets/portal-order-evaluation-pack.png)

You can order your free Evaluation SIM package on the emnify Portal with which you can test all emnify services.
Currently, the 3 triple-cut SIM cards can be delivered to most destinations worldwide with express shipment.


[Log into your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign) and follow these steps:

1. On the dashboard, click on order on **Get your free SIMs**
1. Select the **Free Evaluation Package with 3 Triple-cut SIMs**
1. Fill in your **Invoice data**, **Delivery details**, and **Choose shipping option**.
1. Proceed to pay the shipping charges and you will be notified when the SIM cards will be shipped.

Commit message:

Mention the initial pre-paid credit in the Quickstart guide

docs/quickstart/getting-started.md, after:

---
title: Getting started with emnify
description: How to start developing your IoT solutions with emnify
---
# Sign up for an emnify account

To begin developing your IoT solutions with emnify, you'll need an emnify account.
[Sign up](https://portal.emnify.com/sign/up) for free to a 60-day trial to use all functionalities.

<details className="custom-details-troubleshooting">
  <summary>Need help verifying your phone number?</summary>
    <p>When filling out our <a href="https://portal.emnify.com/sign/up" target="_blank">sign-up form</a>, you may have issues verifying your phone number.</p>
    <p>Here are a few common error messages and what to do if you see them:</p>
    <b>SMS verification not possible</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Try registering with another phone number.</li>
      <li><a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">Contact our sales team</a> to set up your account.</li>
    </ul>
    <b>You've reached the maximum login attempts</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Wait at least 10 minutes, and then try to log in again.</li>
      <li>If you've waited and your next attempt is blocked, <a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">contact our sales team</a>.</li>
    </ul>
    <b>The verification code you entered is incorrect</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Re-enter your code and click <b>Verify</b> again.</li>
      <li>Click <b>Resend Code</b> and enter the new verification code once you've received it.</li>
      <li>Still having trouble? <a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">Contact our sales team</a>.</li>
    </ul>
    <b>The CAPTCHA you entered is incorrect</b>
    <ul>
      <li>Re-enter the displayed CAPTCHA characters.</li>
      <li>Keep in mind that CAPTCHA shows both upper and lowercase letters, so it's important to capitalize them exactly as they're shown.</li>
      <li>Still having trouble? <a href="https://www.emnify.com/talk-to-us" target="_blank">Contact our sales team</a>.</li>
    </ul>
</details>

## Order a free Evaluation SIM package

![Claim your free evaluation package with 3 triple-cut SIMs to kickstart your well-managed IoT journey. Includes: Free 3 triple-cut SIMs, form factor (Nano, Micro, Mini), our full coverage, and global fast shipping.](assets/portal-order-evaluation-pack.png)

You can order your free Evaluation SIM package on the emnify Portal.
The package also includes an initial 10 EUR or USD of pre-paid credit to help you test emnify's services.

:::note
You have 60 days to use this pre-paid credit.
:::

Currently, the 3 triple-cut SIM cards can be delivered to most destinations worldwide with express shipment.

To get your free Evaluation SIM package, [log into your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign) and follow these steps:

1. On the dashboard, click on order on **Get your free SIMs**
1. Select the **Free Evaluation Package with 3 Triple-cut SIMs**
1. Fill in your **Invoice data**, **Delivery details**, and **Choose shipping option**.
1. Proceed to pay the shipping charges and you will be notified when the SIM cards will be shipped.
