docs/quickstart/order-a-sim-package.md, before:

# Quickstart

To begin developing your IoT solutions with emnify, you will need an
emnify account.
[Sign up](https://portal.emnify.com/sign/up) for free to a 60-day trial to use all functionalities.

## Order a free evaluation SIM package

You can order your free Evaluation SIM package on the emnify Portal with which you can test all emnify services.
Currently, the 3 physical SIM cards can be delivered to many destinations at no charge.
For other destinations, we do charge a small shipping fee.

To get started immediately, you can download the eSIM for your smartphone or eSIM enabled tablet for free.

Log into your [emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com) and follow these steps:

1. On the dashboard, click on order on **Get your FREE SIMs**
1. Select the SIM cards of your choice.  
If you select physical SIM cards, you can further choose between 3in1 (no nano SIM) or 4in1 (with nano SIM).  
If you select the eSIM, you can directly download it into your eSIM compatible phone.
You can find the instructions to do so in this [blog post](https://www.emnify.com/en/developer-hub/emnify-developer-esim).
1. For the physical SIM cards, proceed to fill in your shipping details.
1. Proceed to pay the shipping charges and you will be notified when the SIM cards will be shipped.

Commit message:

Resolved open discussions in PRs #2 and #8 regarding the Quickstart guide migration: Redesigned the navigation for the Quickstart guide to match the other chapters like Services and Events

docs/quickstart/order-a-sim-package.md, after:

# Sign up for an emnify account

To begin developing your IoT solutions with emnify, you'll need an emnify account.
[Sign up](https://portal.emnify.com/sign/up) for free to a 60-day trial to use all functionalities.

## Order a free evaluation SIM package

You can order your free Evaluation SIM package on the emnify Portal with which you can test all emnify services.
Currently, the 3 physical SIM cards can be delivered to most destinations at no charge.
For other destinations, we do charge a small shipping fee.

To get started immediately, you can download the eSIM for your smartphone or eSIM enabled tablet for free.

Log into your [emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com) and follow these steps:

1. On the dashboard, click on order on **Get your FREE SIMs**
1. Select the SIM cards of your choice.  
If you select physical SIM cards, you can further choose between 3in1 (no nano SIM) or 4in1 (with nano SIM).  
If you select the eSIM, you can directly download it into your eSIM compatible phone.
You can find the instructions to do so in this [blog post](https://www.emnify.com/en/developer-hub/emnify-developer-esim).
1. For the physical SIM cards, proceed to fill in your shipping details.
1. Proceed to pay the shipping charges and you will be notified when the SIM cards will be shipped.
