docs/quickstart/order-sims.md, before:

---
description: Step-by-step guide to order emnify SIMs from the SIM Shop
last_update: 
  date: 05-12-2023
pagination_prev: quickstart/index
sidebar_label: Order SIMs
slug: /quickstart/order-sims
---

# Order emnify SIMs from the SIM Shop

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD029 -->

Here's how you can order SIM cards any time on the emnify Portal.

<details className="custom-details-troubleshooting">
  <summary>First time ordering SIM cards on emnify?</summary>
    <p>If you're new to emnify and interested in testing our services free of charge, see <a href="https://docs.emnify.com/quickstart#order-free-trial-sims">Order free trial SIMs</a>.</p>
</details>

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
2. Navigate to the [**SIM Inventory**](https://portal.emnify.com/sim-inventory) and click **Order SIMs**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-inventory-order-sim.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

3. Once you're in the **SIM Shop**, select your preferred SIM type.
4. Click **Step 2 - Choose Amount** to confirm your choice.

:::tip
For more information about the various form factors and quality grades, see [Global IoT SIM](/services/global-iot-sim).
:::

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-shop-choose-sim-type.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

5. You'll land on the **SIM Order** page that shows an overview of your order so far.
Here, you can specify the amount of each SIM type you want to receive.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-shop-sim-order.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

:::note
For larger orders, you can split your order into **Batches** (for example, collections of 25, 100, or 500 SIMs).

The benefit of batches is that they can be registered all at once, whereas single SIMs can only be registered individually.
To learn more, see [Register emnify SIMs](/quickstart/register-sims).

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-shop-sim-order-choose-amount-batches.png').default}
  alt=""
    style={{ width: 700 }}
/>
:::

6. Enter your **Invoice and shipping details**, and specify your **Shipping option**.
7. Then, choose a way to pay in **Payment details**:

- **Online payment** (that is, card or PayPal) is possible for any order size.
- **Bank transfer** is only available when ordering 100 or more SIMs.

Click **Next** to confirm your payment option.

8. Finally, review your order on the **Confirmation** page.
9. If everything looks good, click **Buy Now**.

Assuming there are no errors, you should receive a confirmation, and our team will begin processing your order. 🎉

:::info
You'll be notified when the SIM cards will be shipped.
:::

Commit message:

Edit emnify IoT SIM page to match updated service description

docs/quickstart/order-sims.md, after:

---
description: Step-by-step guide to order emnify SIMs from the SIM Shop
last_update: 
  date: 05-12-2023
pagination_prev: quickstart/index
sidebar_label: Order SIMs
slug: /quickstart/order-sims
---

# Order emnify SIMs from the SIM Shop

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD029 -->

Here's how you can order SIM cards any time on the emnify Portal.

<details className="custom-details-troubleshooting">
  <summary>First time ordering SIM cards on emnify?</summary>
    <p>If you're new to emnify and interested in testing our services free of charge, see <a href="https://docs.emnify.com/quickstart#order-free-trial-sims">Order free trial SIMs</a>.</p>
</details>

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
2. Navigate to the [**SIM Inventory**](https://portal.emnify.com/sim-inventory) and click **Order SIMs**.
<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-inventory-order-sim.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

3. Once you're in the **SIM Shop**, select your preferred SIM type.
4. Click **Step 2 - Choose Amount** to confirm your choice.

:::tip
In use cases where devices are mobile, we highly recommend choosing the form factor that fits the device exactly, not multi-cut ones that include a smaller size.
The pluggable SIMs are more durable and provide firmer contact with the device than the multi-cut.

For more information about the various form factors and quality grades, see [emnify IoT eSIM](/services/global-iot-sim).
:::

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-shop-choose-sim-type.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

5. You'll land on the **SIM Order** page that shows an overview of your order so far.
Here, you can specify the amount of each SIM type you want to receive.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-shop-sim-order.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

:::note
For larger orders, you can split your order into **Batches** (for example, collections of 25, 100, or 500 SIMs).

The benefit of batches is that they can be registered all at once, whereas single SIMs can only be registered individually.
To learn more, see [Register emnify SIMs](/quickstart/register-sims).

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sim-shop-sim-order-choose-amount-batches.png').default}
  alt=""
    style={{ width: 700 }}
/>
:::

6. Enter your **Invoice and shipping details**, and specify your **Shipping option**.
7. Then, choose a way to pay in **Payment details**:

- **Online payment** (that is, card or PayPal) is possible for any order size.
- **Bank transfer** is only available when ordering 100 or more SIMs.

Click **Next** to confirm your payment option.

8. Finally, review your order on the **Confirmation** page.
9. If everything looks good, click **Buy Now**.

Assuming there are no errors, you should receive a confirmation, and our team will begin processing your order. 🎉

:::info
You'll be notified when the SIM cards will be shipped.
:::
