docs/services/platform/data-streamer/index.md, before:

---
description: Benefits of emnify's multicloud Data Streamer and how to get started
last_update: 
  date: 12-31-2022
pagination_label: Data Streamer
pagination_next: services/platform/data-streamer/connection-types
slug: /multicloud-data-streamer
---

# emnify multicloud Data Streamer

Before a device can send data to an application, it must communicate with the mobile network to ensure that it can send the data over that network.
This communication happens through signaling events, which are usually hidden from the application.

With the emnify Data Streamer, this connectivity metadata is made available to your cloud platform or self-developed software stacks in near real time.
Using one of the many integrations provides you with complete network transparency to triage and resolve issues quickly and build your application or business logic based on the provided information.

These integrations also provide insights for IoT remote monitoring and anomaly detection or detailed information about service usage (that is, data and SMS) and cost per device.
You can also configure data streams to reflect events generated by the emnify system when your users perform billing-related updates, order SIMs, or perform other operations.

:::tip
The [Introduction to the emnify Data Streamer webinar](https://youtu.be/FE8MUwNLe9k) shows you how to get full visibility of your IoT data.
To discover how to stream all available events to an AWS S3 bucket, see [Webinar: How to store all events and data usage on AWS S3?](https://support.emnify.com/hc/en-us/articles/360010214460)

**_Warning: these webinars use a legacy version of the [emnify Portal](https://portal.emnify.com/)._**
:::

## Benefits

- Connectivity metadata integrated into operational dashboards for service teams
- Faster triaging between the device, connectivity, and application issues
- Insights about network attach, data, and roaming issues or when a device is over the service limit
- Overview of service usage and cost per device

## Use the Data Streamer

There are two main ways to manage data streams:

- [emnify Portal](/multicloud-data-streamer/usage#data-streamer-in-the-portal)
- [emnify REST API](/multicloud-data-streamer/usage#data-streamer-api) 

More information on these systems and how they compare is available on the [Using the Data Streamer](/multicloud-data-streamer/usage) page.

Commit message:

Link to Data Streamer webinars from the emnify Knowledge Base (#247)
Co-authored-by: Emilia Schulenburg <64897723+eschkola@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/services/platform/data-streamer/index.md, after:

---
description: Benefits of emnify's multicloud Data Streamer and how to get started
last_update: 
  date: 12-31-2022
pagination_label: Data Streamer
pagination_next: services/platform/data-streamer/connection-types
slug: /multicloud-data-streamer
---

# emnify multicloud Data Streamer

Before a device can send data to an application, it must communicate with the mobile network to ensure that it can send the data over that network.
This communication happens through signaling events, which are usually hidden from the application.

With the emnify Data Streamer, this connectivity metadata is made available to your cloud platform or self-developed software stacks in near real time.
Using one of the many integrations provides you with complete network transparency to triage and resolve issues quickly and build your application or business logic based on the provided information.

These integrations also provide insights for IoT remote monitoring and anomaly detection or detailed information about service usage (that is, data and SMS) and cost per device.
You can also configure data streams to reflect events generated by the emnify system when your users perform billing-related updates, order SIMs, or perform other operations.

## Benefits

- Connectivity metadata integrated into operational dashboards for service teams
- Faster triaging between the device, connectivity, and application issues
- Insights about network attach, data, and roaming issues or when a device is over the service limit
- Overview of service usage and cost per device

## Use the Data Streamer

There are two main ways to manage data streams:

- [emnify Portal](/multicloud-data-streamer/usage#data-streamer-in-the-portal)
- [emnify REST API](/multicloud-data-streamer/usage#data-streamer-api) 

More information on these systems and how they compare is available on the [Using the Data Streamer](/multicloud-data-streamer/usage) page.

emnify has also hosted webinars to demonstrate various Data Streamer use cases.
The recordings and associated guides are available in the emnify Knowledge Base at the following links:

- [Introduction to the emnify Data Streamer](https://support.emnify.com/hc/en-us/articles/360010311999-Webinar-Introduction-to-the-EMnify-Data-Streamer)
- [Store all events and data usage on AWS S3](https://support.emnify.com/hc/en-us/articles/360010214460-Webinar-How-to-store-all-events-and-data-usage-on-AWS-S3-)
- [Analyze emnify usage data and events in AWS QuickSight](https://support.emnify.com/hc/en-us/articles/360010604820-How-to-analyze-EMnify-usage-data-and-events-in-AWS-Quicksight-)
- [Display emnify SIM locations on an interactive map using the Data Streamer](https://support.emnify.com/hc/en-us/articles/360010815220-Webinar-how-to-display-EMnify-SIM-location-on-an-interactive-map-by-using-the-EMnify-Data-Streamer)
- [Receive email or Slack notifications from the emnify Data Streamer](https://support.emnify.com/hc/en-us/articles/360010536679-Webinar-Email-Slack-notifications-from-the-EMnify-Data-Streamer)

:::note
These webinars use a legacy version of the emnify Portal.
:::
