docs/how-tos/workspaces/create.mdx, before:

---
description: How to submit a request for a new workspace in the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 01-17-2024
pagination_label: Create a new workspace
pagination_next: how-tos/workspaces/link
slug: /workspaces/create
---

# Create a new workspace

Company accounts with the **Pro Package** can have up to three workspaces.

There are many reasons to opt for multiple workspaces.
For example, organizations with foreign regional subsidiaries or companies producing products in multiple industries.

This guide shows you how to submit a request for a new workspace via the emnify Portal.
Alternatively, you can also link existing workspaces if you already have two or more created.

:::info
Only **Administrator** user accounts of customers with the **Pro Package** can create new workspaces.
:::

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ width: 650 }}
/>

2. Click your organization's name (or the corresponding icons) to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Create a new workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-create.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ width: 650 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for a new workspace** modal appears, enter your **Contact email** and provide more details or any requirements for the new workspace.
5. Click **Send Request**.

:::warning
Organizations can only submit one workspace request at a time.
If you need more than one workspace, include those details in the body of your request.
:::

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, the emnify team processes your request and contacts you to sort out the requirements.
Then, the new workspace are created and set up for you.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2-7 days for your new workspace to be ready.
:::

:::tip[feature requests]
Workspaces are new to emnify, so feedback and suggestions are very welcome.
Please [open a ticket on Canny](https://emnify.canny.io/).
:::

Commit message:

Create more partials for repetitive how-to and integration guides (#278)

docs/how-tos/workspaces/create.mdx, after:

---
description: How to submit a request for a new workspace in the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 01-17-2024
pagination_label: Create a new workspace
pagination_next: how-tos/workspaces/link
slug: /workspaces/create
---

# Create a new workspace

import PermissionsInfoPartial from './partials/_permissions-info.mdx'
import FeatureRequestsTipPartial from './partials/_feature-requests-tip.mdx'

Company accounts with the **Pro Package** can have up to three workspaces.

There are many reasons to opt for multiple workspaces.
For example, organizations with foreign regional subsidiaries or companies producing products in multiple industries.

This guide shows you how to submit a request for a new workspace via the emnify Portal.
Alternatively, you can also [link existing workspaces](/workspaces/link) if you already have two or more created.

<PermissionsInfoPartial orgData="customers with the Pro Package" action="create new" />

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ width: 650 }}
/>

2. Click your organization's name (or the corresponding icons) to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Create a new workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-create.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ width: 650 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for a new workspace** modal appears, enter your **Contact email** and provide more details or any requirements for the new workspace.
5. Click **Send Request**.

:::warning
Organizations can only submit one workspace request at a time.
If you need more than one workspace, include those details in the body of your request.
:::

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, the emnify team processes your request and contacts you to sort out the requirements.
Then, the new workspace are created and set up for you.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2-7 days for your new workspace to be ready.
:::

<FeatureRequestsTipPartial />
