docs/how-tos/workspaces/create.md, before:

---
description: How to submit a request for a new workspace
pagination_label: Create a new workspace
pagination_next: how-tos/workspaces/link
slug: /workspaces/create
---

# Create a new workspace <span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary beta">Beta</span>

[Company accounts](/glossary#company-account) on the [**Pro** plan](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/subscription#plans) can have up to 5 [workspaces](/glossary#workspace).

There are many reasons to opt for multiple workspaces.
For example, organizations with foreign regional subsidiaries or companies producing products in multiple industries.

This guide shows you how to submit a request for a new workspace via the [emnify Portal](https://portal.emnify.com/).
Alternatively, you can also [link existing workspaces](/workspaces/link) if you already have two or more created.

:::info
Only **Admin** [user accounts](/glossary#user-account) of customers on our [**Pro** plan](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/subscription#plans) can create new workspaces.
:::

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

2. Click your organization's name (or the corresponding icons) to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Create a new workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-create.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ height:450 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for a new workspace** modal appears, fill in your **Contact email** and provide more details or any requirements for the new workspace.
5. Click **Send Request**.

:::caution
[Organizations](/glossary#organization) can only submit one workspace request at a time.
If you need more than one workspace, include those details in the body of your request.
:::

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, our team will process your request and contact you to sort out the requirements.
Then, we'll create and set up the new workspace for you.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2–7 days for your new workspace to be ready.
:::

:::tip Feature requests
Workspaces are new to emnify, so feedback and suggestions are very welcome.
Please [open a ticket on Canny](https://emnify.canny.io/).
:::

Commit message:

Publish initial draft of the emnify Portal user guide  (#142)
Co-authored-by: John Kirch <john.kirch@emnify.com>
Co-authored-by: Jeff Stahlnecker <45363541+jeffstahlnecker@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/how-tos/workspaces/create.md, after:

---
title: Create a new workspace
description: How to submit a request for a new workspace
pagination_label: Create a new workspace
pagination_next: how-tos/workspaces/link
slug: /workspaces/create
---

# Create a new workspace <span className="theme-doc-version-badge badge badge--primary beta">beta</span>

[Company accounts](/glossary#company-account) on the [**Pro** plan](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/subscription#plans) can have up to 5 [workspaces](/glossary#workspace).

There are many reasons to opt for multiple workspaces.
For example, organizations with foreign regional subsidiaries or companies producing products in multiple industries.

This guide shows you how to submit a request for a new workspace via the [emnify Portal](https://portal.emnify.com/).
Alternatively, you can also [link existing workspaces](/workspaces/link) if you already have two or more created.

:::info
Only **Administrator** [user accounts](/glossary#user-account) of customers on the [**Pro** plan](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/subscription#plans) can create new workspaces.
:::

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

2. Click your organization's name (or the corresponding icons) to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Create a new workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-create.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ height:450 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for a new workspace** modal appears, fill in your **Contact email** and provide more details or any requirements for the new workspace.
5. Click **Send Request**.

:::caution
[Organizations](/glossary#organization) can only submit one workspace request at a time.
If you need more than one workspace, include those details in the body of your request.
:::

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, the emnify team processes your request and contacts you to sort out the requirements.
Then, the new workspace are created and set up for you.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2-7 days for your new workspace to be ready.
:::

:::tip Feature requests
Workspaces are new to emnify, so feedback and suggestions are very welcome.
Please [open a ticket on Canny](https://emnify.canny.io/).
:::
