docs/how-tos/workspaces/link-existing.md, before:

---
description: If you already have one or more workspaces created
---

# Link an existing workspace

1. Log in to your [emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

2. Click this to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Link existing workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-link.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ height:450 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for linking a workspace** modal appears, fill in your **Contact email** and provide any details about the workspace you want to link.
5. Click **Send Request**.

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, our team will process your request and contact you to link your existing workspaces.
We can also work with you to customize them.

:::info
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2–7 days for your workspaces to be linked.
:::

Commit message:

Add admonitions for permissions and Canny requests

docs/how-tos/workspaces/link-existing.md, after:

---
description: If you already have one or more workspaces created
---

# Link an existing workspace

:::info
Only **Admin** user accounts of customers on our [**Pro** plan](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/subscription#plans) can link existing workspaces.
:::

1. Log in to your [emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
/>

2. Click this to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Link existing workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-link.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ height:450 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for linking a workspace** modal appears, fill in your **Contact email** and provide any details about the workspace you want to link.
5. Click **Send Request**.

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, our team will process your request and contact you to link your existing workspaces.
We can also work with you to customize them.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2–7 days for your workspaces to be linked.
:::

:::tip Feature requests
Workspaces are new to emnify, so feedback and suggestions are very welcome.
Please [open a ticket on Canny](https://emnify.canny.io/).
:::
