docs/how-tos/workspaces/link.mdx, before:

---
description: What to do if you already have two or more workspaces created in the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 01-17-2024
slug: /workspaces/link
---

# Link an existing workspace

import PermissionsInfoPartial from './partials/_permissions-info.mdx'
import FeatureRequestsTipPartial from './partials/_feature-requests-tip.mdx'

If you already have two or more workspaces created, you can link these to a shared main organization.
These linked workspaces can be centrally or individually managed.

This guide shows you how to submit a request to link existing workspaces via the emnify Portal.
Alternatively, you can also [create a new workspace](/workspaces/create).

<PermissionsInfoPartial orgData="customers with the Pro Package" action="link existing" />

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your organization's name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ width: 650 }}
/>

2. Click your organization's name (or the corresponding icons) to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Link existing workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-link.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ height: 450 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for linking a workspace** modal appears, enter your **Contact email** and provide any details about the workspace you want to link.
5. Click **Send Request**.

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, the emnify team processes your request and contacts you to link your existing workspaces.
They can also work with you to customize them.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2-7 days for your workspaces to be linked.
:::

Once linked, **Administrator** user accounts of the main organization are able to [switch between workspaces](/workspaces/switch).

<FeatureRequestsTipPartial />

Commit message:

Rename feature to 'multiple workspaces' and remove references to 'main organization'

docs/how-tos/workspaces/link.mdx, after:

---
description: What to do if you already have two or more workspaces created in the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 02-26-2024
slug: /workspaces/link
---

# Link an existing workspace

import PermissionsInfoPartial from './partials/_permissions-info.mdx'
import FeatureRequestsTipPartial from './partials/_feature-requests-tip.mdx'

If you already have two or more workspaces created, you can link these workspaces and manage them using one emnify account.

This guide shows you how to submit a request to link existing workspaces via the emnify Portal.
Alternatively, you can also [create a new workspace](/workspaces/create).

<PermissionsInfoPartial action="link existing" />

1. [Log in to your emnify account](https://portal.emnify.com/sign).
You should see your workspace name at the top of the primary sidebar.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ width: 650 }}
/>

2. Click your workspace name (or the corresponding icons) to reveal the **Workspaces** modal.
3. Select **Link existing workspace**.

<img
  src={require('./assets/portal-sidebar-workspaces-link.png').default}
  alt=""
  style={{ height: 450 }}
/>

4. Once the **Request for linking a workspace** modal appears, enter your **Contact email** and provide any details about the workspace you want to link.
5. Click **Send Request**.

If you see the **Request Sent** modal, your request has been submitted successfully. 🎉

From there, the emnify team processes your request and contacts you to link your existing workspaces.
They can also work with you to customize them.

:::note
The process may take time, as each new workspace requires a new contract.
It usually takes 2-7 days for your workspaces to be linked.
:::

Once linked, invited **Administrator** user accounts are able to [switch between workspaces](/workspaces/switch).

<FeatureRequestsTipPartial />
