docs/how-tos/workspaces/manage-users.mdx, before:

---
description: Instructions for how to invite, add, remove, or update Workspace users in the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 02-29-2024
slug: /workspaces/manage-users
---

# Manage Workspace users

import Check from '../assets/check.svg';
import DotsVertical from '../assets/dots-vertical.svg';
import Edit from '../assets/edit.svg';

You can view and manage your Workspace users by navigating to **Workspace settings**&nbsp;<span aria-label="and then">></span> [**Users**](/portal/org/employees).

:::info
Only users with the **Administrator** role can see the list of Workspace users, invite new users, remove users, or modify roles.
:::

## Invite a new user

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), click **Invite user**. 
1. Provide the recipient's email address and select a [**User role**](/portal/roles).
1. Review, then click **Invite user**.

## Add a user to a Workspace

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), find the user you want to add to the Workspace and click **<Edit className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Edit**.
1. Select **Add to Workspace**.
1. In the **Workspace** list, choose an option and click **<Check className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Confirm**.

## Delete a user from a Workspace

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), find the user you want to remove from the Workspace and click **<Edit className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Edit**.
1. Click **<DotsVertical className="inline-icon" alt="" /> More** next to the Workspace name.
1. Select **Delete user**.
1. Review the information on the **Remove user from selected Workspace** modal, then select **Yes, remove user**.

## Modify a user's role

The only user account attribute administrators can change is the **User role**.

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), find the relevant user and click **<Edit className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Edit**.
1. The **User role** is listed next to the Workspace name.
  Find the Workspace where the user's role should change and choose another option from this list.

Changes save automatically.

Commit message:

[PGR-773] Add guide for how to accept Workspace invitation

docs/how-tos/workspaces/manage-users.mdx, after:

---
description: Instructions for how to invite, add, remove, or update Workspace users in the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 03-13-2024
slug: /workspaces/manage-users
---

# Manage Workspace users

import Check from '../assets/check.svg';
import DotsVertical from '../assets/dots-vertical.svg';
import Edit from '../assets/edit.svg';

You can view and manage your Workspace users by navigating to **Workspace settings**&nbsp;<span aria-label="and then">></span> [**Users**](/portal/org/employees).

:::info
Only users with the **Administrator** role can see the list of Workspace users, invite new users, remove users, or modify roles.
:::

## Invite a new user

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), click **Invite user**. 
1. Provide the recipient's email address and select a [**User role**](/portal/roles).
1. Review, then click **Invite user**.

## Add a user to a Workspace

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), find the user you want to add to the Workspace and click **<Edit className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Edit**.
1. Select **Add to Workspace**.
1. In the **Workspace** list, choose an option and click **<Check className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Confirm**.

## Accept a Workspace invitation

:::warning
Existing users must be logged out of the Portal to accept an invitation to a new Workspace.
:::

1. When you're invited or added to a Workspace, you receive an email with the subject line **Portal Invitation**.
  Review the details and click **Accept Invitation** to access the web interface.
1. Confirm your account and select **Continue**.
1. Log in to the Portal as usual.
  The new Workspace should show in the [Workspace switcher](/glossary#workspace-switcher).

## Delete a user from a Workspace

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), find the user you want to remove from the Workspace and click **<Edit className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Edit**.
1. Click **<DotsVertical className="inline-icon" alt="" /> More** next to the Workspace name.
1. Select **Delete user**.
1. Review the information on the **Remove user from selected Workspace** modal, then select **Yes, remove user**.

## Modify a user's role

The only user account attribute administrators can change is the **User role**.

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), find the relevant user and click **<Edit className="inline-icon" alt="" /> Edit**.
1. The **User role** is listed next to the Workspace name.
  Find the Workspace where the user's role should change and choose another option from this list.

Changes save automatically.
