docs/data-streamer/connection-types.md, before:

# Connection types

The emnify Data Streamer allows you to integrate real-time connectivity data streams of your devices and SIMs into your third-party cloud services and/or business systems. 

Using this data, you can build operational dashboards that visualize device, network, and application information side-by-side. 

## Available data streamer integrations

- [Amazon](available-integrations#amazon)
- [Azure](available-integrations#azure)
- [Google Cloud](available-integrations#google-cloud)
- [Keen](available-integrations#keen)
- [Datadog](available-integrations#datadog)
- [Webhook](available-integrations#webhook) (generic RESTful API)

You can use any integration to create multiple independent data streams and operate them in parallel. 
Each data stream can be configured to push data to a separate platform for consumption and processing. 

For example, one stream may be connected to a network monitoring system, another can connect to a data analytics platform, and a third can simultaneously sync with S3 for archiving.

Commit message:

Create generated-index for Data Streamer category

docs/data-streamer/connection-types.md, after:

---
description: Integrating real-time data streams of your devices and SIMs.
---

# Connection types

The emnify Data Streamer allows you to integrate real-time connectivity data streams of your devices and SIMs into your third-party cloud services and/or business systems. 

Using this data, you can build operational dashboards that visualize device, network, and application information side-by-side. 

## Available data streamer integrations

- [Amazon](available-integrations#amazon)
- [Azure](available-integrations#azure)
- [Google Cloud](available-integrations#google-cloud)
- [Keen](available-integrations#keen)
- [Datadog](available-integrations#datadog)
- [Webhook](available-integrations#webhook) (generic RESTful API)

You can use any integration to create multiple independent data streams and operate them in parallel. 
Each data stream can be configured to push data to a separate platform for consumption and processing. 

For example, one stream may be connected to a network monitoring system, another can connect to a data analytics platform, and a third can simultaneously sync with S3 for archiving.
