docs/portal/organization/users.mdx, before:

---
description: Manage users within your Workspace on the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 02-28-2024
slug: /portal/org/employees
---

# Users

import Check from '../assets/check.svg';
import Close from '../assets/close.svg';
import EditFilterInstructionsPartial from '../partials/_edit-filter-instructions.mdx'
import WildcardSupportPartial from '../partials/_wildcard-support.mdx'
import UploadCsvFilePartial from '../partials/_upload-csv-file.mdx'
import EnterValuesListPartial from '../partials/_enter-values-list.mdx'

You can view and administer your Workspace users by navigating to [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users).

:::info
Only users with the **Administrator** role can see the list of Workspace users, invite new users, remove users, or edit roles.
:::

## View Workspace users

The paged list shows the following information for each user.

| Property         | Description           |
|:-----------------|:----------------------|
| User ID          | A unique numeric value associated with a user.  |
| Name             | Names can be first names only and aren't required to be unique.  |
| Email            | The email address used for sending the invitation.  |
| Created          | Date the users' emnify account was created.  |
| User role        | Either **Administrator**, **Observer**, or **User**.  |
| Workspace access | Number of Workspaces the user has access to. Workspace names are listed under the user details, along with the associated role and invitation status (either **Active**, **Invite pending**, or **Invite expired**). |
| Account security | Multi-factor authentication (MFA) status, either **Active** or **Disable**.  |
| Delete user      | For deleting the user's account.  |

## Add a new user

1. On [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users), click **Invite user**. 
1. Provide the recipient's email address and select a [**User role**](/portal/roles).
1. Review, then click **Invite user**.

## Filter users

Three filters are available for the **Workspace users** list.
These filters allow you to query users based on one or more properties (for example, name or email).

<EditFilterInstructionsPartial tableValueType="users" />

### Available filters

| Property        | Value      | [Wildcard support](#wildcard-support) | Description        |
|:----------------|:-----------|:--------------------------------------:|:-------------------|
| Name            | String     | <Check alt="Yes" />         | Name of a user. |
| Email           | String     | <Check alt="Yes" />         | Email address associated with the users' emnify account. |
| Workspaces      | Predefined | <Close alt="No" />          | List of Workspaces the users belong to.  |

### Wildcard support

<WildcardSupportPartial />

For example, if you have two users named `Raha` and `Sasha`, filtering for `ha` or `*ha` shows both users in the results.
Another example is filtering emails using `@example.*` shows all results regardless of whether the email address ends in `example.com` or `example.org`.

### Upload a CSV file

<UploadCsvFilePartial
  tableName="Users"
  example="Name"
  tableValueType="users"
/>

### Enter a list of values

<EnterValuesListPartial example="Email" />

```txt
example.com
example.org
example.net
```

Each value is parsed, and the table shows any emails that use `example.com`, `example.org`, and `example.net`.

## Update a user's account

The only user account attribute administrators can change is the **User role**.
Administrators can also remove a user's account from the Workspace.

Commit message:

Update Users page to reflect current workspace access management (#296)

docs/portal/organization/users.mdx, after:

---
description: View and manage users within your Workspace on the emnify Portal
last_update:
  date: 02-29-2024
slug: /portal/org/employees
---

# Users

import Check from '../assets/check.svg';
import Close from '../assets/close.svg';
import EditFilterInstructionsPartial from '../partials/_edit-filter-instructions.mdx'
import WildcardSupportPartial from '../partials/_wildcard-support.mdx'
import UploadCsvFilePartial from '../partials/_upload-csv-file.mdx'
import EnterValuesListPartial from '../partials/_enter-values-list.mdx'

You can view and manage your Workspace users by navigating to [**Users**](https://portal.emnify.com/organisation-settings/users).

:::info
Only users with the **Administrator** role can see the list of Workspace users, invite new users, remove users, or edit roles.
:::

## View Workspace users

The paged list shows the following information for each user.

| Property          | Description           |
|:------------------|:----------------------|
| User ID           | Unique numeric value associated with a user.  |
| Name              | Names can be first names only and aren't required to be unique.  |
| Email             | Email address used for sending the invitation.  |
| Created           | Date the users' emnify account was created, formatted based on language settings.  |
| User role         | Either **SuperAdmin**, **Administrator**, **Observer**, or **User** (see [Roles and permissions](/portal/roles)). |
| Account security  | Multi-factor authentication (MFA) status, either **Active** or **Disabled**.  |
| Resend invitation | Action to send the user another invitation to the Workspace. Only visible if the **Workspace access** status is **Invite expired**. |
| Delete user       | Action to remove the user's account from the Workspace. |

## Filter users

Three filters are available for the **Workspace users** list.
These filters allow you to query users based on one or more properties (for example, name or email).

<EditFilterInstructionsPartial tableValueType="users" />

### Available filters

| Property        | Value      | [Wildcard support](#wildcard-support) | Description        |
|:----------------|:-----------|:--------------------------------------:|:-------------------|
| Name            | String     | <Check alt="Yes" />         | Name of a user. |
| Email           | String     | <Check alt="Yes" />         | Email address associated with the users' emnify account. |
| Workspaces      | Predefined | <Close alt="No" />          | List of Workspaces the users belong to.  |

### Wildcard support

<WildcardSupportPartial />

For example, if you have two users named `Raha` and `Sasha`, filtering for `ha` or `*ha` shows both users in the results.
Another example is filtering emails using `@example.*` shows all results regardless of whether the email address ends in `example.com` or `example.org`.

### Upload a CSV file

<UploadCsvFilePartial
  tableName="Users"
  example="Name"
  tableValueType="users"
/>

### Enter a list of values

<EnterValuesListPartial example="Email" />

```txt
example.com
example.org
example.net
```

Each value is parsed, and the table shows any emails that use `example.com`, `example.org`, and `example.net`.

## Manage Workspace users

For instructions on how to add or delete users and modify user roles, see [Manage Workspace users](/workspaces/manage-users).
