docs/rest/index.md, before:

---
description: Introduce the OpenAPI structure and code samples
last_update: 
  date: 11-02-2021
pagination_next: graphql/preview
slug: /rest
---

# emnify REST API

REST APIs are one way to integrate external services into your application.
The emnify API provides a variety of HTTP requests to integrate several emnify services into your application.

The emnify REST API is based on the OpenAPI Specification OAS3.
You can try out the API using the [interactive API reference](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/swagger.html).

## Authentication

To use the emnify REST API, you must authenticate with an authentication token.
emnify uses JSON Web Tokens (JWTs) as the authentication token.

You can retrieve this authentication token using an application token generated in your emnify account.
For step-by-step instructions, see [Authenticate with application tokens](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/application-token.html) in the emnify System Documentation.

## Code samples

See the [emnify examples in JavaScript](https://github.com/emnify/API_Examples_JS) GitHub repository for examples of how to authenticate and get the device status via the REST API.

:::tip
The [How to use Rest-API via Postman](https://www.emnify.com/developer-blog/postman-emnify-api) guide provides information on how to more efficiently work with the emnify REST API.
:::

Commit message:

Edit REST API page to match updated service description (#289)

docs/rest/index.md, after:

---
description: Introduce the emnify REST API and link to the available documentation and interactive API reference
last_update: 
  date: 02-19-2024
pagination_next: graphql/preview
slug: /rest
---

# emnify REST API

All communication management capabilities available on the emnify Portal are exposed via a REST API that you can call from your programming language of choice.
You can monitor and manage M2M connectivity, SIMs, devices, billing, invoicing, and more.
For example, you can synchronize SIM and device activation in the field and query and control networking functions from the application.
Additionally, you can also retrieve and send SMS via the REST API.

Due to the extensive API offerings, you can develop your own connectivity management platform or integrate your existing service platform.
The emnify REST API is well documented and based on the [OpenAPI Specification OAS3](https://oai.github.io/Documentation/specification.html).

Guides, examples, and reference documentation are available in the [emnify System Documentation](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/index.html).
You can also try out the API using the [interactive API reference](https://cdn.emnify.net/api/doc/swagger.html).
